# Specification [WIP]

`nl` (NoteLang) is a markdown derivative specifically adapted for use with Personal Knowledge Management. The goal of the language is to optimize for IDE/text editor and terminal based interaction with your notes.

This specification is a work in progress as features are added to the language. For now, assume that all Markdown is valid and any extensions that are not part of the [CommonMark specification](https://spec.commonmark.org/0.31.2/) will be detailed below. Until 1.0, there are no guarantees that all CommonMark will be valid but unless you are doing something uncommon (pun not intented) it will likely work.

A markdown superset was specifically chosen to allow for easy integration with existing markdown tools and to allow us to focus on the features that are unique to `nl`.

## Frontmatter

Frontmatter is a 1-1 mapping with [Obsidian properties](https://help.obsidian.md/Editing+and+formatting/Properties). Certain fields in frontmatter con be configured to allow `nl` to infer structure, for example `type: project`, these are optional.

## Types

TODO: think through how note types could be defined/extended. Do built-in types make sense (e.g. projects)?

## Tasks

Tasks can be created in any note using the following format:

```
- [ ] Write the nl specification
```

### Status

Status is indicated by the value enclosed between the square brackets.

```md
- [ ] todo
- [b] blocked
- [/] doing
- [x] done
- [a] abandoned
```

### Fields

#### Due Dates

Due dates are indicated by the `due:` key. The value is a date in the format `YYYY-MM-DD`.

```md
- [ ] task due:2024-01-01
- [ ] some taskd:2024-01-01
```

#### Scheduled dates

Scheduled dates are indicated by the `scheduled:` key. The value is a date in the format `YYYY-MM-DD`. Scheduled dates differ from due dates in that they are not a hard deadline but rather a date that the task is scheduled to be worked on.

```md
scheduled:2024-01-01
s:2024-01-01
```

#### Priority

Priority is indicated by the `priority:` key. The value is an integer between 0 and 10.

```md
priority:1
p:1
```

#### Recurrences (every)

Recurrences are indicated by the `every:` field. Recurrences are triggered on task completion and will create a new task directly above it in the note with the same configuration but with the due date incremented by the specified interval relative to the time of completion.

```md
every:day
e:day
every:2 weeks
every:15th, 30th
every:1st jan
every:jan june
```
A more complete list of recurrence formats can be found in the [tasks test cases](./pkg/parsers/task_test.go).

#### Completed

Completed tasks are indicated by the `completed:` key. The value is a date in the format `YYYY-MM-DD`. These values are automatically generated by the TUI or LSP upon task completion, but can be manually set.

```md
completed:2024-01-01
```

## Wikilinks

TODO

Wikilinks are a form of internal links (links to notes in the opened workspace) in the form of `[[note name]]`.

